the famous little blue check mark the
verification badge provided by meta
verified is it worth it that's exactly
the question that I'm going to try to
answer today sharing with you my
thoughts and opinion now that we have
had metav verified for about the last
year before we dive into whether or not
it's worth it I do think it's important
to make sure that we're all on the same
page about what is metav verified what
is offered what is Promised what is
guaranteed and some of the myths that
are floating around about metav verified
metav verified is a program that's
available on both Facebook and Instagram
where you can pay a monthly fee in order
to get the little blue check mark next
year profile it's been available for
about a year now and before that the
only way that you could get the blue
check mark on Instagram was if you were
a notable public figure and then either
Instagram found you on their own and
decided to give you the blue check mark
Or you could apply you could provide
them with some links to maybe news
articles that you've been mentioned in
and then if Instagram deemed you
noteworthy enough you would get the blue
check mark in the US it's $15 per month
on Instagram to get verified and $12 per
month on Facebook to get verified and
with verification there's more than just
the blue check mark they also give
increased account security measures
which basically means that they are
proactively trying to prevent your
account from being hacked you also get
access to exclusive features on
Instagram stories and reals although
they haven't really told us what those
are yet there are occasional little
features that you do get as a part of
metav verified and if you're a part of
metav verified on Facebook you get
what's called 100 Stars per month and
these are kind of like gifts or tips
that you can give out to other creators
to show your support for them you also
get impersonation protection which means
that Instagram is looking for accounts
that are copying yours and just the fact
that you have the blue check mark is a
very easy way for a potential follower
or customer to see that you are the real
you and all the other accounts that
don't have the blue check mark but that
have your name or profile picture
they're not real and the final thing
that's promised as a part of metav
verified is direct Account Support where
essentially you have the option to chat
with a real human being who works at
meta to ask them questions get technical
support now when metav verified was
initially announced and it was
originally tested in Australia and New
Zealand they also promised you would get
increased reach or preferential
treatment from the algorithms for being
a part of metav verified they were very
quick to take that back and to remove
that perk as one of the benefits of
being a part of metav verified they got
a lot of push back for it a lot of hate
and I think it was just hard for them to
distinguish or prioritize certain
accounts just because they had meta
verified and how did they balance that
out with advertisements and other
recommendations in the feed I think that
for a wide variety of reasons that
wasn't a great idea it kind of fed into
this payto playay narrative and I think
it was wise that Instagram got rid of it
now before we get into my actual
thoughts and feedback on the program I
do want to say that I was verified prior
to metav verified I did apply for metav
verified once it rolled out because I
wanted these additional features I
wanted the ability to to chat with
someone who worked at meta but because I
was verified from my past life as a
college football player I was actually
unable to get meta verified which is I
think a whole another problem and a
whole another conversation that we could
have but one that we're not necessarily
going to dive into today instead I
really thought it would be useful to
talk about what I've been hearing from
people in the direct messages what I've
been seeing in other people's posts and
comments section what I've been reading
in blogs and forums online regarding
metav verified and just share my general
thoughts around it and whether or not I
think it's worth it for you to invest in
first and foremost the biggest myth or
misconception that was being spread once
metav verified was rolled out was that
if you weren't a part of metav verified
you were going to be getting less views
and I totally see where that comes from
that comes from the initial announcement
that said that if you were a part of
meta verified you would get more views
and so while that was true for about a
week or so when Instagram removed that
suddenly the opposite started to be
spread the opposite of that myth the
myth that was now being spread and that
you might even have heard of yourself is
that people who are metav verified are
getting less views on Instagram and from
every study we've done from studying
accounts individual engagement and Views
prior to metav verified and after
joining meta verified there's no
difference there is no correlation
between the blue check mark on Instagram
and having less or more views because of
it now you might be watching this right
now and you're like Brock you're wrong
I'm the exception I joined metav
verified and my views when in the tank
and it's possible it's absolutely
possible that you are the exception it's
absolutely possible that you are part of
the minority who did notice a drop in
views immediately after joining meta
verified but what I think was more than
likely happening is that Real's views in
2023 were down by 76% that's a statistic
that I've noted many times and it comes
from a study from metrol that looked at
over 300,000 Instagram accounts and they
found that yeah across the board on
average Real's views decre increased by
76% last year and that's regardless of
whether or not you were a part of meta
verified so more than likely what I
think was going on was that people were
joining metav verifide and their views
were going down and so they blamed metav
verifide they looked to metav verifide
to be their scapegoat or the reason the
thing to blame for their dropping views
when in reality everyone's views were
dropping and it wasn't just the people
who got the blue check mark when metav
verifide first came out I was a big
proponent of it I was a fan of it and
while lot of people were mad because you
were now paying for things or paying for
services on Instagram which I totally
understand I think in an Ideal World
customer service and account support and
protection against impersonation should
be free and available for everyone I
wish that was true but I also think that
meta verified is worth it that's what I
said originally and that's what I'm
sticking with now a year later we have
seen little to no negative repercussions
for people who are signing up for metav
verified there have been some glitches
there have been some things that have
happened over the last year most of that
seems to be fixed now and it really
seems like there are only neutral or
positive outcomes from joining metav
verified one of the biggest questions
that I know I had when metav verified
first came out was would this dilute the
perceived value of the blue check mark
in the past being verified on Instagram
or Twitter or any other social media had
some sort of clout or credibility to it
it kind of made you look like you were a
professional you were someone who was
famous you were someone uh who was well
established in their field and I know
that I definitely benefited from having
that blue check mark most people didn't
realize that my blue check mark came
from being a college football player
they just assumed it came because I knew
how to do Instagram really well and I do
think that it helped me grow my
following slightly back in 2021 it was
definitely one of the factors that
helped me grow and so when meta verified
first came out and suddenly anyone could
get the blue check mark for just paying
$15 a month I assume that that would
dilute its value value or it's perceived
credibility and while it definitely has
done so a little bit it no longer means
that you're a celebrity or you're a
famous noteworthy person I think it
actually has kind of created a divide or
a distinction between the people who are
taking Instagram seriously and the
people who aren't taking Instagram as
seriously I know that to this day when I
receive a comment or a direct message
from someone with a blue check mark I'm
significantly more likely to tap on
their profile and check out their
account just to see is this someone who
is famous is some someone who's
noteworthy and has hundreds of thousands
of followers and they just messaged me
or is this person maybe who just bought
the blue verified check mark but either
way I'm clicking on their profile either
way I'm curious and regardless even if I
tap on their profile and they have 200
followers I now know this person is
taking Instagram seriously this is not
just a little hobby or something they're
doing on the side this is something that
they're trying to turn into a business
or a brand that they're trying to grow a
following or a community that they're
trying to build and that's evidence to
me because they're quite literally
willing to make a financial investment
into this Instagram account if you're
watching this on YouTube you can let me
know in the comments I'd be super
curious if you have that same feeling
when you look at people's profiles or
when you get a new comment or a message
or a new follower and they have that
blue check mark are you more likely to
tap on their profile do you kind of have
that same thought that I do that hey
this is someone who's taking Instagram
seriously if nothing else that BL check
mark definitely tells me that this
person is not spam or a robot this is
someone who is paying uh to use
Instagram and to use Instagram to its
full potential Additionally the benefits
of having increased account protection
account security impersonation
protection and monitoring and some of
the exclusive features that Instagram
has given us with metav verified I think
those are awesome and I think those are
great perks I think those are things uh
that we again I wish we all had but I do
think they're very valuable they're
worth it and for $15 a month I'm willing
to make that investment in order to get
those features best of all I think
arguably the most important feature or
the most used feature of meta verified
is that chat with the actual meta
employee and that's my biggest reason
for wishing I could be a part of metav
verified and wishing I wasn't old school
verified because I would love the
ability to chat with a real human being
at meta I have anecdotally heard a lot
of stories of people who have gotten
great help and great support from the
person they've chatted with and I've
also heard some stories of people who
said that the chat wasn't that helpful
or they didn't really get their
questions answered but either way just
the fact that you can actually speak
with a real human being who works at
meta that's a huge step up from how most
of us go about our days most people who
message me with some sort of last ditch
effort their account is getting hacked
they got uh flagged or taken down or
they're just having some massive problem
with Instagram I end up having to tell
them that there's no real way to get in
contact with Instagram having the email
address or the phone number of an
employee at Instagram is kind of like
the Holy Grail it's really tough to do
I've been fortunate to work with quite a
few people who work at meta and I've
been uh really fortunate to get to
collaborate with them and so I have some
contacts myself but even those I don't
give out to the public I hold those very
close to my chest because I get about a
dozen messages a day asking for those
contacts and if I gave them all out I
wouldn't be able to message those people
in the future but if I didn't have those
contacts I would have no way like most
people of contacting Instagram or
Facebook support and getting answers to
my questions or getting customer service
but with metav verified I can now do so
and maybe this will help you this is at
least how I think of metav verified I
think of that $115 fee as paying the
person who is my customer service
representative or who is my human being
who works at meta I think of the fee as
what is paying for their salary
essentially so that's kind of what would
make me feel better about investing in
metav verified and speaking of the word
investing this is not investment advice
this is not tax strategy advice I'm not
a licensed CPA I'm not a licensed uh
Investment Portfolio manager or anything
like that but personally if I was a part
of metav verified I would use it as a
tax write off because it is a business
expense or at least I would consider it
a business expense I would use it as a
tax write off and I see it as such I
don't see it as $15 that I am wasting
every month I see it as $15 that I'm
investing into protecting my business on
Instagram and being able to get Account
Support or or feedback from someone who
works at meta for a relatively low fee
in my opinion I mean the cost of two
cups of coffee for all of the things
that we've listed is in my opinion worth
it and the great thing is metav verified
is a month-to-month program so if you
ever want to stop doing metav verified
if you don't think you're using the
customer service enough if you just
don't feel like it's worth it for you if
you join meta verified and your views
get cut by like 300% and you're like oh
my gosh this is terrible it's crushing
My Views even though Brock said it's not
going to and it's there's no correlation
it is crushing My Views so I'm canceling
metav verified you can do so you can
cancel it at any time and once your 30
days ends your blue check will go away
and you will no longer be paying that
monthly fee so in my opinion it's at
least worth a test if you do want to
test out metav verify they are
consistently expanding into new
countries and new territories but all
you have to do is visit mea.com
verified that's mea.com verified and
know this is not sponsored in any way I
wish meta would pay me to say this but
this is honestly just my true and honest
feedback my opinion on metav verified
and whether or not I think it's worth it
I would love to hear from you though if
you're watching this on YouTube please
let me know down in the comments what
are your thoughts on metav verified if
you're someone who hasn't joined already
let me know if you think you're going to
join in the future if you're someone who
has already joined and you have the blue
check mark on Instagram I'd love to hear
your overall thoughts and feedback on
the program do you think it's worth it
have you ever reached out to your meta
customer service representative before
and is it something that you're going to
continue using in the future let me know
down in the comments below thank you so
much for watching today and as always
happy
[Music]
networking
yeah